README.md, before:

# vehicle-signal-decoding

Api for managing vehicle signal decoding on the DIMO platform.
## Developing locally

To download postgres:

```bash
brew install postgresql
pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres start && brew services start postgresql
```
If postgres is already installed, go ahead and create database in postgres. 

```bash
psql postgres
create user dimo PASSWORD 'dimo';
grant dimo to postgres;
create database vehicle_signal_decoding_api
    with owner dimo;
```

Open postgres database in DataGrip to view schema, tables, etc.

**TL;DR**

```bash
cp settings.sample.yaml settings.yaml
docker compose up -d
go run ./cmd/vehicle-signal-decoding migrate
go run ./cmd/vehicle-signal-decoding
```

### Regenerate swagger docs

`swag init -g cmd/vehicle-signal-decoding/main.go --parseDependency --parseInternal --generatedTime true`

https://github.com/swaggo/swag#declarative-comments-format

## Generating gRPC client and server code

1. Install the protocol compiler plugins for Go using the following commands

```bash
brew install protobuf
go install google.golang.org/protobuf/cmd/protoc-gen-go
go install google.golang.org/grpc/cmd/protoc-gen-go-grpc@latest
```

2. Run protoc in the root directory

```bash
protoc --go_out=. --go_opt=paths=source_relative \
    --go-grpc_out=. --go-grpc_opt=paths=source_relative \
    pkg/grpc/*.proto
```

## Linting

`brew install golangci-lint`

`golangci-lint run`

This should use the settings from `.golangci.yml`, which you can override.

If brew version does not work, download from https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/releases (darwin arm64 if M1), then copy to /usr/local/bin and sudo xattr -c golangci-lint

### Database ORM

This is using [sqlboiler](https://github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler). The ORM models are code generated. If the db changes,
you must update the models.

Make sure you have sqlboiler installed:

```bash
go install github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler/v4@latest
go install github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler/v4/drivers/sqlboiler-psql@latest
```

To generate the models:

```bash
sqlboiler psql --no-tests --wipe
```

_Make sure you're running the docker image (ie. docker compose up)_

If you get a command not found error with sqlboiler, make sure your go install is correct.
[Instructions here](https://jimkang.medium.com/install-go-on-mac-with-homebrew-5fa421fc55f5)

### Adding migrations

To install goose in GO:
```bash
$ go get github.com/pressly/goose/v3/cmd/goose@v3.5.3
export GOOSE_DRIVER=postgres
```

To install goose CLI:
```bash
$ go install github.com/pressly/goose/v3/cmd/goose
export GOOSE_DRIVER=postgres
```

Have goose installed, then:

`goose -dir internal/infrastructure/db/migrations create slugs-not-null sql`

## Local development

Importing data: Device definition exports are [here]([url](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1WymEqZo-bCH2Zw-m5L9u_ynMSwPeEARL))
You can use sqlboiler to import or this command:
```sh
psql "host=localhost port=5432 dbname=vehicle_signal_decoding_api user=dimo password=dimo" -c "\COPY vehicle_signal_decoding_api.integrations (id, type, style, vendor, created_at, updated_at, refresh_limit_secs, metadata) FROM '/Users/aenglish/Downloads/drive-download-20221020T172636Z-001/integrations.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER"
```

### Starting Kafka locally

`$ brew services start kafka`
`$ brew services start zookeeper`

This will use the brew services to start kafka locally on port 9092. One nice thing of this vs. docker-compose is that we can use this 
same instance for all our different locally running services that require kafka. 

### Produce some test messages

`$ go run ./cmd/test-producer`

In current state this only produces a single message, but should be good enough starting point to test locally. 

### Create decoding topic 

`kafka-topics --create --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 1 --topic topic.JOB.decoding`

### Sample read messages in the topic

`kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic topic.JOB.decoding --from-beginning`

Commit message:

SM-766 use identity-api for vehicle, refactoring powertrain (#95)
* update go 1.22, use identity api for vehicle, refactor how we handle powertrain

* update tests, refactor

* update tests, update logic to support no vehicle

* fix test

* improved test to handle edge case and fail

* update swagger and readme

* swag desc

README.md, after:

# vehicle-signal-decoding

Api for managing vehicle signal decoding on the DIMO platform.

There must be at least one 'default' template per powertrain and protocol combo. Default templates are those where their name 
starts with the word `default-`. Templates can also have special mappings by:
- specific device ethereum address (`device_to_template` table)
- specific list of device definition ID's (`template_device_definitions` table)
- range of years, makes and models (`template_vehicles` table)

### Flow for a device to get their configuration:

1. Get the URL's to your device's configuration: `/device-config/eth-addr/:ethAddr/urls`
2. If above fails, typically b/c your vehicle/device pairing hasn't been minted yet, then can try by VIN: `/device-config/vin/:vin/urls`
3. Now you should have the URL's to the different device configurations:
  - PID's
  - DBC file, may be blank
  - settings, usually power related settings
  If nothing is returned, your device should at least have some default PID's and power settings it can try in the meantime. Check back every so often on endpoint in 1.
4. Download the respective data and use it for your device. 
5. You should also persist the urls responses so that you can compare them in the future to check for configuration updates for your device/vehicle. 
  _Note that the URL's have a version at the end eg. @v1.0.0_

## Developing locally

To download postgres:

```bash
brew install postgresql
pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres start && brew services start postgresql
```
If postgres is already installed, go ahead and create database in postgres. 

```bash
psql postgres
create user dimo PASSWORD 'dimo';
grant dimo to postgres;
create database vehicle_signal_decoding_api
    with owner dimo;
```

Open postgres database in DataGrip to view schema, tables, etc.

**TL;DR**

```bash
cp settings.sample.yaml settings.yaml
docker compose up -d
go run ./cmd/vehicle-signal-decoding migrate
go run ./cmd/vehicle-signal-decoding
```

### Regenerate swagger docs

`swag init -g cmd/vehicle-signal-decoding/main.go --parseDependency --parseInternal --generatedTime true`

https://github.com/swaggo/swag#declarative-comments-format

## Generating gRPC client and server code

1. Install the protocol compiler plugins for Go using the following commands

```bash
brew install protobuf
go install google.golang.org/protobuf/cmd/protoc-gen-go
go install google.golang.org/grpc/cmd/protoc-gen-go-grpc@latest
```

2. Run protoc in the root directory

```bash
protoc --go_out=. --go_opt=paths=source_relative \
    --go-grpc_out=. --go-grpc_opt=paths=source_relative \
    pkg/grpc/*.proto
```

## Linting

`brew install golangci-lint`

`golangci-lint run`

This should use the settings from `.golangci.yml`, which you can override.

If brew version does not work, download from https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/releases (darwin arm64 if M1), then copy to /usr/local/bin and sudo xattr -c golangci-lint

### Database ORM

This is using [sqlboiler](https://github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler). The ORM models are code generated. If the db changes,
you must update the models.

Make sure you have sqlboiler installed:

```bash
go install github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler/v4@latest
go install github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler/v4/drivers/sqlboiler-psql@latest
```

To generate the models:

```bash
sqlboiler psql --no-tests --wipe
```

_Make sure you're running the docker image (ie. docker compose up)_

If you get a command not found error with sqlboiler, make sure your go install is correct.
[Instructions here](https://jimkang.medium.com/install-go-on-mac-with-homebrew-5fa421fc55f5)

### Adding migrations

To install goose in GO:
```bash
$ go get github.com/pressly/goose/v3/cmd/goose@v3.5.3
export GOOSE_DRIVER=postgres
```

To install goose CLI:
```bash
$ go install github.com/pressly/goose/v3/cmd/goose
export GOOSE_DRIVER=postgres
```

Have goose installed, then:

`goose -dir internal/infrastructure/db/migrations create slugs-not-null sql`

## Local development

Importing data: Device definition exports are [here]([url](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1WymEqZo-bCH2Zw-m5L9u_ynMSwPeEARL))
You can use sqlboiler to import or this command:
```sh
psql "host=localhost port=5432 dbname=vehicle_signal_decoding_api user=dimo password=dimo" -c "\COPY vehicle_signal_decoding_api.integrations (id, type, style, vendor, created_at, updated_at, refresh_limit_secs, metadata) FROM '/Users/aenglish/Downloads/drive-download-20221020T172636Z-001/integrations.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER"
```

### Starting Kafka locally

`$ brew services start kafka`
`$ brew services start zookeeper`

This will use the brew services to start kafka locally on port 9092. One nice thing of this vs. docker-compose is that we can use this 
same instance for all our different locally running services that require kafka. 

### Produce some test messages

`$ go run ./cmd/test-producer`

In current state this only produces a single message, but should be good enough starting point to test locally. 

### Create decoding topic 

`kafka-topics --create --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 1 --topic topic.JOB.decoding`

### Sample read messages in the topic

`kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic topic.JOB.decoding --from-beginning`
